## Machine Learning Prediction Applied to Real Estate Investment ##

### Summary ###

In this report, we apply machine learning to forecast Outcode Median prices one year in the future between 2005 and 2017. We find what is most significant is the robustness of the predicted rankings of Outcode performance (percentage price change over a one-year period) on a portfolio basis. Between 2006 and 2017 our Machine Learning predictions have a MAPE (Mean Absolute Percentage Error) of 9.90 percent with standard deviation of 1.75 percent versus Naïve predictions? MAPE of 10.80 percent with standard deviation of 2.22 percent. Portfolios based on the top ten Machine Learning predicted Outcodes return 13.83 times versus 0.74 times initial unit investment when compared to a portfolio of the top ten Naïve predicted Outcodes.
We then take predicted Outcode rankings and apply them to actual historical property price transactions as if they were traded through a property investment fund. We benchmark this return versus various in-class and other asset class returns. We show that our predictions and fund investment strategies outperform in-class and different asset class returns significantly, with a £50 million investment fund returning 3.74 times versus the House Price Index that returns 2.12 times. Furthermore, we show that on a simple strategy of buying in one year and selling the following year, the highest returns are associated with the Machine Learning predictions at a certain level of diversification when backtesting over the entire Land Registry repeated sales.
We also discuss how this stylised example can be adapted and operationalised in the real world.